.\" @(#)cgdma v1.0 9/2004;
.TH cgdma 3M "03 Sep 2004"
.SH NAME
cgdma \- CUTEr CG_DESCENT test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
cgdma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcgdma\fP main program test drives CG_DESCENT on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The CG_DESCENT package is a nonlinear congugate-gradient
method for large-scale unconstrained minimization designed 
by William Hager and Hongchao Zhang (U. Florida).

.SH USAGE
The CG_DESCENT file cg_desecent.f should be compiled, and the resulting 
file cg_descent.o placed in (or symbolically linked to) the directory 
$MYCUTER/double/bin.

There is no single-precision version.

.SH NOTE
If no CG_DESCENT.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from
$CUTER/common/src/pkg/cg_descent/. Default specifications are as
follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
    1.0D-5    eps          The stopping tolerance  
    1.0D-1    delta        Wolfe line search parameter
    9.0D-1    sigma        Wolfe line search parameter
    1.0D-6    epsilon      approximate Wolfe threshold factor
    5.0D-1    theta        update
    6.6D-1    gamma        required decay factor in interval
    5.0D+0    rho          growth factor in bracket
    1.0D-2    eta          lower bound for cg's beta_k
    1.0D-2    psi0         factor used in very initial starting guess
    1.0D-1    psi1         factor previous step multiplied by in QuadStep
    2.0D+0    psi2         factor previous step is multipled by for startup
   1.0D-12    QuadCutOff   lower bound on rel change in f before QuadStep
    1.0D+0    restart_fac  restart cg in restart_fac*n iterations
    5.0D+2    maxit_fac    terminate in maxit_fac*n iterations
    0.0D+0    feps         stop when value change <= feps*|f|
        50    nexpand      number of grow/shrink allowed in bracket
        50    nsecant      number of secant steps allowed in line search
         T    QuadStep     use initial quad interpolation in line search
         F    PrintLevel   F (no print) T (intermediate results)
         F    PrintFinal   F (no print) T (print error messages, final error)
         F    StopRule     F (|grad|_infty <= tol) T (... <= tol*(1+|f|))
         F    ERule        F (eps_k = eps|f|) T (eps_k = eps)
         T    AWolfe       F (Wolfe) T (+approx Wolfe) 2 (epsilon pert)
         F    Step         F (no initial line search guess) T (guess in gnorm)
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
  N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint, 
  ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fICG_DESCENT, A conjugate gradient method with guaranteed descent\fP,
W. W. Hager and H. Zhang,
Department of Mathematics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA,
January, 2004.

sdcgd(1), cgd(1).
