.\" @(#)cgpma v1.0 9/2004;
.TH cgpma 3M "03 Sep 2004"
.SH NAME
cgpma \- CUTEr CG+ test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
cgpma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcgpma\fP main program test drives CG+ on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The CG+ package is a nonlinear conjugate-gradient algorithm
designed for unconstrained minimization by G. Liu, Jorge 
Nocedal and Richard Waltz (Northwestern U.). A choice of three 
conjugate-gradient strategies, Fletcher-Reeves, Polak-Ribiere,
and positive Polak-Ribiere, are available.

.SH USAGE
The CG+ files cgfam.f cgsearch.f timer.f blas.f fcn.f should
be compiled and placed together into a random library libcgplus.a.
For example, with appropriate fortran 77 compiler $F77 and 
compiler flags $FFLAGS, move into the directory in which you have 
unpacked the CG+ codes and issue the commands:

 $F77 $FFLAGS cgfam.f cgsearch.f
 ar ru libcgplus.a cgfam.o cgsearch.o

The resulting double precision object file libcgplus.a should be placed in
(or symbolically linked to) the directory $MYCUTER/double/lib.

There is no single-precision version.

.SH NOTE
If no CGPLUS.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from
$CUTER/common/src/pkg/cgplus/. Default specifications are as
follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
        -1    IPRINT(1) specifies the frequency of output (<0: no output)
         0    IPRINT(2) specifies content of output (0: minimal)
         3    METHOD    method used (1=Fletcher-Reeves,2=Polak-Ribiere,3=P-R+)
         0    IREST     no restart (0) or restart every n iterations (1)
     10000    MAXIT     specifies the maximum number of iterations
   0.00001    EPS       specifies the required gradient accuracy
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
  N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint, 
  ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIGlobal Convergence Properties of Conjugate Gradient Methods\fP,
J.-Ch. Gilbert and J. Nocedal,
SIAM Journal on Optimization, \fB2\fP, pp 21-42, 1992.

sdcgp(1), cgp(1).
