.\" @(#)cobma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH cobma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
cobma \- CUTEr COBYLA test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
cobma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcobma\fP main program test drives COBYLA on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

COBYLA is a nonlinear programming code for unconstrained and constrained
problems, which only uses function values (no derivatives needed).
 
COBYLA was written by M.J.D. Powell, DAMTP, Cambridge University, Silver
Street, Cambridge (GB) (email: mjdp@damtp.cambridge.ac.uk). It is available
from the author.

The object module \fIcobma.o\fP is stored in
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin, where \fIprecision\fP is either "single"
or "double", according to your local installation.

.SH USAGE
Compile (but do not link) the COBYLA source code and copy the
resulting object file cobyla.o in the directory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin. Launch using cob(1) or sdcob(1).

.SH NOTE
COBYLA is not available in double precision.

If no COBYLA.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/cobyla/. The
default specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1.2i 2i 3i
  0.5	RHOBEG	size of the simplex initially
  0.00001	RHOEND	size of the simplex at termination
  8000	MAXFUN	maximum number of function calls
  0	IPRINT	verbosity \- set to 0, 1, 2 or 3
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself
if they wish to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIA direct search optimization method that models the
objective and constraints functions by linear
interpolation\fP,
M.J.D. Powell,
In Advances in optimization and numerical analysis,
Proceedings of the Sixth workshop on Optimization and
Numerical Analysis, Oaxaca, Mexico,
vol.275 of Mathematics and its Applications, pp.51-67.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1994.

