'\" e  @(#)cutest_ccifg v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ccifg 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ccifg \- CUTEst tool to evaluate a single constraint function value and
possibly its gradient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccifg( status, n, icon, X, ci, GCI_val, grad )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccifg_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccifg_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ccifg subroutine evaluates the value of a particular constraint
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X, and
possibly its gradient in the constrained minimization case.
The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ccifg are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B icon \fP[in] - integer
the index of the constraint function to be evaluated,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B ci \fP[out] - real/double precision
the value of constraint function icon at X,
.TP
.B GCI_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the gradient of constraint function icon
evaluated at X,
.TP
.B grad \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set .TRUE. if the gradient of the
constraint functions are required and .FALSE. otherwise.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1), cutest_ccifsg(3)
