'\" e  @(#)cutest_classification v2.2 09/2024;
.TH cutest_classification 3M "29 Sep 2024" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_classification \- CUTEst tool to obtain the name of the problem directly
from OUTSDIF.d.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_classification( status, input, classification )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_classification_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_classification_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_classification subroutine obtains the classification string by
interogating the datafile OUTSDIF.d that was created by the script 
\fIsifdecoder\fP when decoding a SIF file. Problems are
classified according to the scheme described in

.Bd
   https://ralna.github.io/SIFDecode/html/classification/ .
.Ed

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and 
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_classification are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, -1 for a read error.
.TP
.B input \fP[in] - integer
the unit number for the decoded data; the unit from which OUTSDIF.d is read,
.TP
.B classification \fP[out] - character
a 30-character string containing the SIF classification of the problem.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_probname(3M), sifdecoder(1).
