'\" e  @(#)cutest_cigr_threaded v1.0 10/2016;
.TH cutest_cigr_threaded 3M "18 Oct 2016" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cigr_threaded \- CUTEst tool to evaluate the gradient of a problem function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cigr_threaded( status, n, iprob, X, G_val, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cigr_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cigr_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cigr_threaded subroutine evaluates the gradient of either the
objective function or a constraint function
of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X, in the constrained minimization case.
The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cigr_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error, 4 for an out-of-range thread,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B iprob \fP[in] - integer
the number of the problem function to be considered. If iprob = 0, the
value of the objective function will be evaluated, while if iprob =
i > 0, that of the i-th constraint will be evaluated,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B G_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the gradient of problem function iprob
evaluated at X,
.TP
.B thread \fP[in] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1), cutest_cisgr(3), cutest_setup_threaded(3M).
