'\" e  @(#)cutest_ubandh_threaded v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ubandh_threaded 3M "31 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ubandh_threaded \- CUTEst tool to extract a banded matrix 
from the Hessian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ubandh_threaded( status, n, X, nsemib, BANDH, lbandh, maxsbw, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ubandh_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ubandh_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ubandh_threaded subroutine extracts the elements which lie within 
a band of given semi-bandwidth out of the Hessian matrix of the objective
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ubandh_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error, 4 for an out-of-range thread,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
the derivatives will be evaluated at X. 
.TP
.B nsemib \fP[in] - integer
the required semi-bandwidth, i.e., the required number of bands directly below
the diagonal of the Hessian.
.TP
.B BANDH \fP[out] - real/double precision
a two-dimensional array of dimension (0:lbandh,n) which gives the
lower triangular part of the band segment of the Hessian. The diagonal
entry in column i is returned in location BANDH(0,i), while the entry
j places below the diagonal in column i may be found in location
BANDH(j,i),
.TP
.B lbandh \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the leading dimension of BANDH (with
lbandh no smaller than nsemib). N.B. the leading component of BANDH
includes the index 0 so strictly, the size of the leading dimension is
lbandh + 1.
.TP
.B maxsbw \fP[out] - integer
the actual semi-bandwidth, i.e., the actual number of bands directly below
the diagonal of the Hessian.
.TP
.B thread \fP[in] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_usetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1).
