'\" e  @(#)cutest_ugrdh v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ugrdh 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ugrdh \- CUTEst tool to evaluate the gradient and Hessian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ugrdh( status, n, X, G, lh1, H_val )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ugrdh_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ugrdh_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ugrdh subroutine evaluates the gradient and Hessian matrix of
the objective function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the
script \fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X.
This Hessian matrix is stored as a dense matrix.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ugrdh are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B G \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the gradient of the objective
function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B lh1 \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the leading dimension of H_val (with lh1 no
smaller than N),
.TP
.B H_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
a two-dimensional array which gives the value of the Hessian matrix of
the objective function evaluated at X.
.LP
.SH NOTE
Calling this routine is more efficient than separate calls to CUTEST_ugr and
CUTEST_udh.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_cgrdh(3M), sifdecoder(1).
