'\" e  @(#)cutest_cjprod v2.1 10/2014;
.TH cutest_cjprod_threaded 3M "3 Oct 2014"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cjprod_threaded \- CUTEst tool to form the matrix-vector product of 
a vector with the Jacobian of the constraints, or its transpose.
\fP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cjprod_threaded( status, n, m, gotj, jtrans, X,
VECTOR, lvector, RESULT, lresult, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cjprod_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cjprod_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cjprod_threaded subroutine forms the product of a vector with 
the Jacobian matrix, or with its transpose,  of the constraint functions
of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP
evaluated at the point X.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable 
and all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cjprod_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error, 4 for an out-of-range thread,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B gotj \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which specifies whether the first derivatives of
the groups and elements have already been set (gotj = .TRUE.) or if
they should be computed (gotj = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B jtrans \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which specifies whether the product should
involve the Jacobian (jtrans = .FALSE.) or its transpose
(jtrans = .TRUE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when gotj = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used,
.TP
.B VECTOR \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the vector whose product with the Jacobian or its 
transposeis is required,
.TP
.B lvector \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimension of VECTOR.
.TP
.B RESULT \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the result of multiplying the Jacobian or its
transpose by VECTOR. 
.TP
.B lresult \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimension of RESULT.
.TP
.LP
.SH NOTE
gotj should be set to .TRUE. whenever
.TP 3
.B (1)\fP
a call has been made to CUTEST_cgr_threaded, CUTEST_csgr_threaded, CUTEST_cgrdh_threaded, CUTEST_csgreh_threaded or CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded at the current
point, or
.TP
.B (2)\fP
a previous call to CUTEST_cjprod_threaded, with gotj = .FALSE., at the current 
point has been made.
.TP
.B \fPOtherwise, it should be set .FALSE.,
.TP
.B thread \fP[in] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1).
