'\" e  @(#)cutest_clfg v1.1 10/2013;
.TH cutest_clfg 3M "13 Oct 2013" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_clfg \- CUTEst tool to evaluate Lagrangian function value and 
possibly gradient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_clfg( status, n, m, X, Y, f, G, grad )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_clfg_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_clfg_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_clfg subroutine evaluates the value of the Lagrangian function 
.EQ
l(x,y) = f(x) + y sup T c(x)
.EN
for the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP
at the point (X,Y), and possibly its gradient.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and 
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_clfg are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B Y \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the Lagrange multipliers,
.TP
.B f \fP[out] - real/double precision
the value of the Lagrangian function evaluated at (X,Y),
.TP
.B G \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the gradient of the Lagrangian
function evaluated at (X,Y),
.TP
.B grad \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set to .TRUE. if the gradient of
the Lagrangian function is required and .FALSE. otherwise.
.LP 
.SH NOTE
A call to CUTEST_clfg is more efficient than two separate calls to CUTEST_cfn
and CUTEST_cgr.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_uofg(3M), sifdecoder(1).
