'\" e  @(#)cutest_uofg v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_uofg 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_uofg \- CUTEst tool to evaluate function value and possibly gradient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_uofg( status, n, X, f, G, grad )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_uofg_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_uofg_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_uofg subroutine evaluates the value of the objective function of
the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP at
the point X, and possibly its gradient.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_uofg are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B f \fP[out] - real/double precision
the value of the objective function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B G \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the gradient of the objective
function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B grad \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set to .TRUE. if the gradient of
the objective function is required and .FALSE. otherwise.
.LP 
.SH NOTE
A call to CUTEST_uofg is more efficient than two separate calls to CUTEST_ufn
and CUTEST_ugr.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_cofg(3M), sifdecoder(1).
