'\" e  @(#)cutest_ush v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ush 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ush \- CUTEst tool to evaluate the sparse Hessian matrix 
of the objective function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ush( status, n, X, nnzh, lh, H_val, H_row, H_col )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ush_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ush_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ush subroutine evaluates the Hessian matrix of
the objective function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X. This Hessian matrix is stored as a sparse
matrix in coordinate format.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ush are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the problem,
.TP
.B nnzh \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzero elements in the Hessian matrix,
.TP
.B lh \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimensions of H_val, H_row and H_col,
.TP
.B H_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the Hessian matrix  of the objective
function evaluated at X. The i-th entry of H_val gives the value of the
nonzero in row H_row(i) and column H_col(i). Only the upper triangular
part of the Hessian is stored,
.TP
.B H_row \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the row indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the objective function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B H_col \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the column indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the objective function evaluated at X.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_csh(3M), sifdecoder(1).
