'\" e  @(#)cutest_ccfg_threaded v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_ccfg_threaded 3M "31 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.TA T 1i
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ccfg_threaded \- CUTEst tool to evaluate constraint functions values and
possibly their gradients.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccfg_threaded( status, n, m, X, C, jtrans, lj1, lj2, J_val, 
grad, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccfg_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ccfg_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ccfg_threaded subroutine evaluates the values of the constraint 
functions of
the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP at the
point X, and possibly their gradients. The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable 
and all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ccfg_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error, 4 for an out-of-range thread,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B C \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the values of the general constraint functions
evaluated at X. The i-th component of C will contain the value of 
.EQ
c sub i (x),
.EN
.TP
.B jtrans \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set .TRUE. if the transpose of the
constraint Jacobian is required and .FALSE. if the Jacobian itself is
wanted. The Jacobian matrix is the matrix whose i-th row is the
gradient of the i-th constraint function,
.TP
.B lj1 \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the leading dimension of J_val (with lj1
no smaller than n if jtrans is .TRUE. or m if jtrans is .FALSE.),
.TP
.B lj2 \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the second dimension of J_val (with lj2
no smaller than m if jtrans is .TRUE. or n if jtrans is .FALSE.),
.TP
.B J_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
a two-dimensional array of dimension (lj1, lj2) which gives the
value of the Jacobian matrix of the constraint functions, or its
transpose, evaluated at X. If jtrans is .TRUE., the i,j-th component
of the array will contain the i-th derivative of the j-th constraint
function. Otherwise, if jtrans is .FALSE., the i,j-th component of the
array will contain the j-th derivative of the i-th constraint
function,
.TP
.B grad \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set .TRUE. if the gradient of the
constraint functions are required and .FALSE. otherwise,
.TP
.B thread \fP[in] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1)
