'\" e  @(#)cutest_cdimse v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_cdimse 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cdimse \- CUTEst tool to determine the number of nonzeros 
required to store the Hessian of the Lagrangian.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL CUTEST_cdimse( status, ne, he_val_ne, he_row_ne )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cdimse_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cdimse_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cdimse subroutine determines the number of nonzero elements
required to store the Hessian matrix of the Lagrangian function for
the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP.
The matrix is stored in sparse "finite element" format
.ce
.EQ
                   H = sum from {e=1} to {ne} H sub e,
.EN
where each square symmetric element 
.EQ 
H sub e 
.EN 
involves a small subset of the
rows of the Hessian matrix.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and all 
constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cdimse are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B ne \fP[out] - integer
the number of "finite-elements" used,
.TP
.B he_val_ne \fP[out] - integer
the dimension of the array needed to store the real values of the
Hessian, taking all the elements into account (i.e. the dimension of
the array HE_val).
.TP
.B he_row_ne \fP[out] - integer
 the dimension of the array needed to store the integer values of the
Hessian (i.e. the dimension of the array HE_row).
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_ceh(3M), cutest_csgreh(3M), sifdecoder(1).
