'\" e  @(#)cutest_cshprod_threaded v1.2 09/2014;
.TH cutest_cshprod_threaded 3M "5 Sep 2014" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cshprod_threaded \- CUTEst tool to form the matrix-vector product of a
sparse vector with the Hessian matrix of the Lagrangian.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshprod_threaded( status, n, goth, X, Y,
nnz_vector, INDEX_nz_vector, VECTOR,
nnz_result, INDEX_nz_result, RESULT, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshprod_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshprod_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cshprod_threaded subroutine forms the product of a sparse
vector with the Hessian matrix of the Lagrangian function
.EQ
l(x,y) = f(x) + y sup T c(x)
.EN
corresponding to the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point
.EQ
(x,y) =
.EN
(X,Y).

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable
and all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cshprod_threaded are as follows:
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B goth \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable that specifies whether the first and second derivatives of
the groups and elements have already been set (goth = .TRUE.) or if
they should be computed (goth = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when goth = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used.
.TP
.B Y \fP[in] - real/double precision
when goth = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated with Lagrange
multipliers Y. Otherwise Y is not used,
.TP
.B nnz_vector \fP[in] - integer
the number of nonzeros in the vector whose product with the Hessian
is required,
.TP
.B INDEX_nz_vector \fP[in] - integer
an array that gives the indiices of the nonzeros of the vector whose
product with the Hessian is required,
.TP
.B VECTOR \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array that gives the vector whose product with the Hessian is
required; only the nonzeros need be specified,
.TP
.B nnz_result \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in the result obtained by multiplying the Hessian
by VECTOR,
.TP
.B INDEX_nz_result \fP[out] - integer
an array that gives the indices of the nonzeros in the result obtained by
multiplying the Hessian by VECTOR,
.TP
.B RESULT \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array that gives the result of multiplying the Hessian by VECTOR;
only the nonzeros will be set,
.TP
.B thread \fP[out] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH NOTE
goth should be set to .TRUE. whenever
.TP 3
.B (1)\fP
a call has been made to  CUTEST_cdh_threaded, CUTEST_csh_threaded,
CUTEST_cgrdh_threaded or CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded
at the current point, or
.TP
.B (2)\fP
a previous call to CUTEST_chprod_threaded, CUTEST_cshprod_threaded or
CUTEST_cshcprod, with goth = .FALSE., at the current point has been made.
.TP
.B \fPOtherwise, it should be set .FALSE.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_chprod_threaded(3M), cutest_ushprod_threaded(3M), sifdecoder(1).
