'\" e  @(#)cutest_cisgrp v1.0 10/2023;
.TH cutest_cisgrp 3M "17 Oct 2023" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cisgrp \- CUTEst tool to evaluate the sparsity pattern of 
the gradient of a problem function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cisgrp( status, n, iprob, nnzg, lg, G_var )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cisgrp_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cisgrp_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cisgrp subroutine evaluates the sparsity pattern of 
the gradient of either the objective function or a constraint function
of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP, in the constrained minimization case.
The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cisgrp are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B iprob \fP[in] - integer
the number of the problem function to be considered. If iprob = 0, the
value of the objective function will be evaluated, while if iprob =
i > 0, that of the i-th constraint will be evaluated,
.TP
.B nnzg \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in G_var,
.TP
.B lg \fP[in] - integer
the declared length of G_var,
.TP
.B G_var \fP[out] - integer
an array whose i-th component is the unique index of a variable within
the sparsity pattern of the gradient.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1), cutest_cigr(3), cutest_cisgr(3)
