'\" e  @(#)cutest_cnames v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_cnames 3M "4 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cnames \- CUTEst tool to obtain the names of the problem and its variables.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cnames( status, n, m, pname, VNAMES, CNAMES )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cnames_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cnames_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cnames subroutine obtains the names of the problem, its
variables and general constraints.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and 
all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cnames are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B pname \fP[out] - character
a 10-character string containing the name of the problem,
.TP
.B VNAMES \fP[out] - character
an array of 10-character strings containing the names of the
variables,
.TP
.B CNAMES \fP[out] - character
an array of 10-character strings containing the names of the general
constraints.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_unames(3M).
