'\" e  @(#)cutest_csgrsh_threaded v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_csgrsh_threaded 3M "31 Dec 2012" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded \- CUTEst tool to evaluate constraints gradients, sparse
Lagrangian Hessian and the gradient of either the objective/Lagrangian
in sparse format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded( status, n, m, X, Y, grlagf,
nnzj, lj, J_val, J_var, J_fun,
nnzh, lh, H_val, H_row, H_col, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded subroutine evaluates the gradients of the general
constraints, the Hessian matrix of the Lagrangian function
.EQ
l(x,y) = f(x) + y sup T c(x)
.EN
and the gradient of either the objective function or the Lagrangian
corresponding to the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point
.EQ
(x,y) =
.EN
(X,Y).
The data is stored in sparse format.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and
all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_csgrsh_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error, 4 for an out-of-range thread,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B grlagf \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set .TRUE. if the gradient of the
Lagrangian function is required and .FALSE. if the gradient of the
objective function is sought,
.TP
.B Y \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which should give the Lagrange multipliers,
.TP
.B nnzj \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in J_val,
.TP
.B lj \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimensions of J_val, J_fun and J_var,
.TP
.B J_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the values of the nonzeros of the gradients of
the objective, or Lagrangian, and general constraint functions
evaluated at X and Y. The i-th entry of J_val gives the value of the
derivative with respect to variable J_var(i) of function J_fun(i),
.TP
.B J_var \fP[out] - integer
an array whose i-th component is the index of the variable with
respect to which J_val(i) is the derivative,
.TP
.B J_fun \fP[out] - integer
an array whose i-th component is the index of the problem function
whose value J_val(i) is the derivative. J_fun(i) = 0 indicates the
objective function whenever grlagf is .FALSE. or the Lagrangian
function when grlagf is .TRUE., while J_fun(i) = j > 0 indicates the
j-th general constraint function,
.TP
.B nnzh \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in H_val,
.TP
.B lh \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimensions of H_val, H_row and H_col,
.TP
.B H_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the Hessian matrix of the Lagrangian
function evaluated at X and Y. The i-th entry of H_val gives the value of
the nonzero in row H_row(i) and column H_col(i). Only the upper
triangular part of the Hessian is stored,
.TP
.B H_row \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the row indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the Lagrangian function evaluated at X and Y,
.TP
.B H_col \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the column indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the Lagrangian function evaluated at X and Y,
.TP
.B thread \fP[in] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH NOTE
Calling this routine is more efficient than separate calls to
CUTEST_csgr_threaded and CUTEST_csh_threaded.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_cgr_threaded(3M), sifdecoder(1).
