'\" e  @(#)cutest_ushprod_threaded v1.2 09/2014;
.TH cutest_ushprod_threaded 3M "5 Sep 2014" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_ushprod_threaded \- CUTEst tool to form the matrix-vector product of a vector with
the Hessian matrix.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ushprod_threaded( status, n, goth, X, 
nnz_vector, INDEX_nz_vector, VECTOR,
nnz_result, INDEX_nz_result, RESULT, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ushprod_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_ushprod_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_ushprod_threaded subroutine forms the product of a sparse 
vector with the Hessian
matrix of the objective function of the problem decoded from a SIF file
by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP at the point X.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_ushprod_threaded are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B goth \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable that specifies whether the first and second derivatives of
the groups and elements have already been set (goth = .TRUE.) or if
they should be computed (goth = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when goth = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used.
.TP
.B nnz_vector \fP[in] - integer
the number of nonzeros in the vector whose product with the Hessian 
is required,
.TP
.B INDEX_nz_vector \fP[in] - integer
an array that gives the indiices of the nonzeros of the vector whose 
product with the Hessian is required,
.TP
.B VECTOR \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array that gives the vector whose product with the Hessian is
required; only the nonzeros need be specified,
.TP
.B nnz_result \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in the result obtained by multiplying the Hessian 
by VECTOR,
.TP
.B INDEX_nz_result \fP[out] - integer
an array that gives the indiices of the nonzeros in the result obtained by
multiplying the Hessian by VECTOR,
.TP
.B RESULT \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array that gives the result of multiplying the Hessian by VECTOR; 
only the nonzeros will be set,
.TP
.B thread \fP[out] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_usetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH NOTE
goth should be set to .TRUE. whenever
.TP 3
.B (1)\fP
a call has been made to CUTEST_udh_threaded, CUTEST_ush_threaded, 
CUTEST_ugrdh_threaded or CUTEST_ugrsh_threaded 
at the current point, or
.TP
.B (2)\fP
a previous call to CUTEST_uhprod_threaded or CUTEST_ushprod_threaded, 
with goth = .FALSE., at the current point has been made.
.TP
.B \fPOtherwise, it should be set .FALSE.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_uhprod_threaded(3M), cutest_cshprod_threaded(3M), sifdecoder(1).
