'\" e  @(#)cutest_csh v1.0 12/2012;
.TH cutest_cshc 3M "13 Jan 2012"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cshc \- CUTEst tool to evaluate the Hessian of the constraint part of
the Lagrangian, in sparse format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshc( status, n, m, X, Y, 
nnzh, lh, H_val, H_row, H_col )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshc_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cshc_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cshc subroutine evaluates the Hessian matrix of the constraint part 
of the Lagrangian function 
.EQ
y sup T c(x)
.EN
for the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecoder\fP
at the point
.EQ
(x,y) = 
.EN
(X,Y).
The matrix is stored in sparse format.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable and 
all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cshc are as follows
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array 
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B Y \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the Lagrange multipliers,
.TP
.B nnzh \fP[out] - integer
the number of nonzeros in H_val,
.TP
.B lh \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimensions of H_val, H_row and H_col,
.TP
.B H_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the values of the constraint part of the
Hessian matrix of the
Lagrangian function evaluated at X and Y. The i-th entry of H_val gives
the value of the nonzero in row H_row(i) and column H_col(i). Only the
upper triangular part of the Hessian is stored,
.TP
.B H_row \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the row indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the constraint part of the Lagrangian function evaluated at X and Y, 
and
.TP
.B H_col \fP[out] - integer
an array which gives the column indices of the nonzeros of the Hessian
matrix of the constraint part of the Lagrangian function evaluated at X and Y.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_csh(3M), cutest_ush(3M), sifdecoder(1).
