'\" e  @(#)cutest_cchprods_threaded v1.0 12/2015;
.TH cutest_cchprods_threaded 3M "23 Dec 2015" "CUTEst user documentation" "CUTEst user documentation"
.SH NAME
CUTEST_cchprods_threaded \- CUTEst tool to form the matrix-vector products
of a vector with each of the Hessian matrices of the constraint functions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cchprods_threaded( status, n, m, goth, X, Y, VECTOR,
lchp, CHP_val, CHP_ind, CHP_ptr, thread )

.HP 1i
For real rather than double precision arguments, instead

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cchprods_threaded_s( ... )

.HP 1i
and for quadruple precision arguments, when available,

.HP 1i
CALL CUTEST_cchprods_threaded_q( ... )

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUTEST_cchprods_threaded subroutine forms the product of a vector with
each of the Hessian matrix of the constraint functions
.EQ
c(x)
.EN
corresponding to the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script
\fIsifdecoder\fP at the point
.EQ
x =
.EN
X.

The problem under consideration
is to minimize or maximize an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to
general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ 1 ,..., m sub E } ),
.EN
general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
{ m sub E + 1 ,..., m }),
.EN
and simple bounds
.EQ
x sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ x sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable
and all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CUTEST_cchprods_threaded are as follows:
.TP 5
.B status \fP[out] - integer
the outputr status: 0 for a succesful call, 1 for an array
allocation/deallocation error, 2 for an array bound error,
3 for an evaluation error,
.TP
.B n \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B m \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B goth \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which specifies whether the second derivatives of
the groups and elements, and the indexing information held in
 CHP_ind and CHP_ptr (see below) have already been set (goth = .TRUE.) or if
this information should be computed (goth = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when goth = .FALSE., the Hessians will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used.
.TP
.B VECTOR \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the vector whose product with the constraint Hessians is
required,
.TP
.B lchp \fP[in] - integer
a variable that specifies the declared lengths of CHP_val and CHP_ind.
The precise length required may be found by calling \fICUTEST_cdimchp\fP prior
to \fICUTEST_cchprods_threaded\fP,
.TP
.B CHP_val \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array that gives the values of the nonzeros in the result obtained by
multiplying the constraint Hessians by VECTOR. The values for the i-th
constraint are stored in CHP_val(CHP_ptr(i):CHP_val(i+1)-1),
.TP
.B CHP_ind \fP[inout] - integer
an array that gives the indices of the nonzeros in the result obtained by
multiplying the constraint Hessians by VECTOR. The indices for the i-th
constraint are stored in CHP_ind(CHP_ptr(i):CHP_ptr(i+1)-1), and
match the values stored in  CHP_val,
.TP
.B CHP_ptr \fP[inout] - integer
an array of length m+1 that gives pointers to the starting positions in
CHP_ind and CHP_val
for the nonzeros for the product with each Hessian. CHP_ptr(m+1)-1 gives
the total space required by CHP_ind and CHP_val.
.TP
.B thread \fP[out] - integer
thread chosen for the evaluation; threads are numbered
from 1 to the value threads set when calling CUTEST_csetup_threaded.
.LP
.SH NOTE
goth should be set to .TRUE. only when
a previous call to CUTEST_cchprods_threaded, with goth = .FALSE., at the
current point has been made. Otherwise, it should be set .FALSE.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cutest_cdimchp(3M), sifdecoder(1).
