.\" @(#)la04ma v1.0 12/2002;
.TH la04ma 3M "13 Dec 2002"
.SH NAME
la04ma \- CUTEr LA04 test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
la04ma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIla04ma\fP main program test drives LA04 on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

LA04 is a subroutine for the solution of the general, large, linear
programming problem within a feasible region defined by simple bound
and linear equlaity constraints. It uses a steepest-edge simplex approach in
which the variables are partitioned into free and fixed variables, the
latter being fixed at one of their bounds. The status of each variable
is revised after every iteration.
 
LA04 is part of HSL (formerly the Harwell Subroutine Library), and was written 
by John Reid. It is available from Hyprotech UK Ltd, subject to certain 
license agreements. It is copywritten jointly by CCLRC and Hyprotech UK.

.SH USAGE
To build the \fIprecision\fP precision version, the LA04
\fIprecision\fP subroutine and dependencies should be concatenated in
a new file called la04.f. This file should then be compiled (but not
linked) and the resulting object file la04.o placed in the direcotory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/.

.SH NOTE
If no LA04.SPC file is present in the current directory, the default
version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/la04/. Default
specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
1000	MAXIT,  the maximum number of iterations.
6	IOUNIT, output unit ( <= 0 to supress )
T	WRITES, write the solution to a file?
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below, the documentation of
the routine in HSL or the code itself if he or she wishes to modify these 
parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fILA04, a Fortran 77 code for steepest-edge simplex linear programming\fP, 
J.K. Reid, Report RAL TR-2001-???, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, 2001.
   
sdla04(1), la04(1).
