.\" @(#)lbsma v1.0 9/2004;
.TH lbsma 3M "03 Sep 2004"
.SH NAME
lbsma \- CUTEr L-BFGS test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
lbsma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlbsma\fP main program test drives L-BFGS on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The L-BFGS package is a limited-memory algorithm designed for 
unconstrained minimization by Jorge Nocedal (Northwestern U.). 

.SH USAGE
The L-BFGS file lbfgs.f should be edited to remove the
subroutines DAXPY and DDOT. It should then be
compiled, and the resulting file lbfgs.o placed in
(or symbolically linked to) the directory $MYCUTER/double/bin.

There is no single-precision version.

.SH NOTE
If no LBFGS.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from
$CUTER/common/src/pkg/lbfgs/. Default specifications are as
follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
         5    M         specifies the number of iterations in the memory
        -1    IPRINT(1) specifies the frequency of output (<0: no output)
         0    IPRINT(2) specifies content of output (0: minimal)
     10000    MAXIT     specifies the maximum number of iterations
   0.00001    EPS       specifies the required gradient accuracy
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint, 
ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIUpdating quasi-{N}ewton matrices with limited storage\fP,
J. Nocedal,
Mathematics of Computation, \fB35\fP, pp 773--782, 1980.

sdlbs(1), lbs(1).
