.\" @(#)lmbma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH lmbma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
lmbma \- CUTEr L-BFGS-B test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
lmbma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlmbma\fP main program test drives L-BFGS-B on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

L-BFGS-B is a nonlinear programming code for unconstrained or bound
constrained problems, using the limited memory BFGS quasi-Newton
update.
 
L-BFGS-B was written by C. Zhu, R.H. Byrd, P. Lu and J. Nocedal. It is
available from J. Nocedal, Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Sciences, Nothwestern University, Evanston IL 60201, USA
(email: nocedal@venus.eecs.nwu.edu).

The object module \fIlmbma.o\fP is stored in
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin, where \fIprecision\fP is either "single"
or "double", according to your local installation.

.SH USAGE
To avoid multiply defined subroutines when LBFGS is linked with the
CUTEr tools, the duplicate BLAS subroutines daxpy, dcopy, ddot and
dscal must be removed from the file routines.f in the LBFGS
distribution.

Compile (but do not link) the resulting L-BFGS-B source code and copy the
resulting object file lbfgsb.o in the directory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin. Launch using lmb(1) or sdlmb(1).

.SH NOTE
If no LBFGSB.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/lbfgsb/. The
default specifications are

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
5	M	maximum number of variable metric
		 corrections
0.0	FACTR	factor in built-in stopping test
0.00001	GTOL	termination criterion on infinity
		 norm of the gradient
0	IPRINT	output specifier
1	ISBMIN	minimization method in the subspace
10000	MAXIT	maximum number of iterations
10000	MAXCLL	maximum number of function calls 
.fi

The reader is referred to the papers quoted below if they wishe to
modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIA limited memory algorithm for bound constrained
optimization\fP,
R. H. Byrd, P. Lu, J. Nocedal and C. Zhu, 
SIAM J. Scientific Computing \fB16\fP (1995), no. 5.
 
\fIL-BFGS-B: a limited memory FORTRAN code for solving
bound constrained optimization problems\fP,
C. Zhu, R.H. Byrd, P. Lu, J. Nocedal, Tech. Report,
EECS Department, Northwestern University, 1994.

