.\" @(#)nitsma v1.0 6/2003;
.TH nitsma 3M "9 Jun 2003"
.SH NAME
nitsma \- CUTEr NITSOL test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
nitsma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fInitsma\fP main program test drives NITSOL on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

NITSOL is a package for the solution of nonlinear systems of
equations in which key linear systems are approximately
solved using a variety of Krylov-based methods.

NITSOL has been written and is distributed by
       
  Homer F. Walker and Michael Pernice
  Department of Mathematical Sciences
  Worcester Polytechnic Institute    
  Worcester, MA 01609-2280, USA
  E-mail  walker@wpi.edu

.SH USAGE
NITSOL is available from

  ftp://ephraim.wpi.edu/pub/nitsol/nitsol.tar.gz

Use the provided Makefile to obtain the library libnitsol.a, and
move this into your directory $MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/lib/.
If you are unable to provide machine-tuned BLAS and/or LAPACK
routines, use the same Makefile to obtain libblas.a and/or liblapack.a,
and move these into $MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/lib/.

.SH NOTE
If no NITSOL.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from
$CUTER/common/src/pkg/nitsol/. Default specifications are as
follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
    200    NNIMAX max number of nonlinear iterations 
      1    IJACV  method for J*v eval. (0 => finite diffs, 1 => analytic)
      0    IKRYSL Krylov solver: (0 => GMRES 1 => BiCGSTAB, 2 => TFQMR)
     20    KDMAX  max Krylov subspace dimension when GMRES is used 
      0    IRPRE  right preconditioning: (0 => no, 1 => yes)
   1000    IKSMAX max allowable number iterations per call to Krylov solver
      0    IRESUP residual update for GMRES (0 => combination, 1 => direct)
      2    IFDORD order of the finite-difference formula (sometimes) used 
     10    IBTMAX maximum allowable number of backtracks per linesearch
      0    IETA   flag determining the forcing term eta (0,1,2,3)
      1    IPLVL  printlevel (0 => nome, => 1 it+f, => 2+ increasing detail)
      6    IPUNIT printout unit number
      0    IPSOL  print solution to output unit (0 => no, 1 => yes)
 1.0D-6    FTOL   stopping tolerance on the f-norm
 1.0D-6    STPTOL stopping tolerance on the steplength
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.   

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fINITSOL: a Newton iterative solver for nonlinear systems\fP,
M. Pernice and H. F. Walker, Special Issue on Iterative Methods, 
SIAM J. Sci. Comput., 19 (1998), 302--318.

sdnits(1), nits(1).









