.\" @(#)npsma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH npsma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
npsma \- CUTEr NPSOL test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
npsma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fInpsma\fP main program test drives NPSOL on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The NPSOL package is designed to minimize smooth functions subject to
constraints, which may include simple bounds, linear constraints, and
smooth nonlinear constraints.  The software uses a sequential
quadratic programming algorithm, where bounds, linear constraints and
nonlinear constraints are treated separately.  NPSOL stores all
matrices in dense format, and is therefore not intended for large
sparse problems.
NPSOL has been written by Gill, Murray, Saunders and Wright, and is
available from the Office of Technology Licensing at Stanford
University. 

The object module \fInpsma.o\fP is stored in
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin, where \fIprecision\fP is either "single"
or "double", according to your local installation.

.SH USAGE
Concatenate the following .f files into a single file named npsol.f:

.nf
.ta 1.2i 2i
chsubs.f	npsolsubs.f
cmsubs.f	opsubs.f
f06subs.f	qrsubs.f
lssolsubs.f	srsubs.f
mcsubs.f
.fi

Compile (but do not link) the NPSOL source code and copy the
resulting object file npsol.o in the directory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin. Launch using nps(1) or sdnps(1).

.SH OUTPUT
The main output from NPSOL is written (by default) in a file named
fort.9, and then renamed to NPSOL.LIS by nps.  (This file is
subsequently renamed to probname.nps by sdnps.)  If this unit number
has been changed in the NPSOL source code, then it must also be
changed in the shell script nps. The unit number may also be changed
in the NPSOL.SPC file, by adding the following line:
 
   Print File  n
 
where n is the new unit number.  Again, if fort.n is to be renamed to
NPSOL.LIS by nps, the unit number must also be changed in nps.
 
In addition, NPSOL can create a summary of the problem output. By the
source code default, this summary is sent to unit 0, and thus does not
appear anywhere.  The CUTE default version of NPSOL.SPC includes the
line
 
   Summary  6
 
which means that the summary output is directed to standard output. Of
course, this line may be changed or deleted from NPSOL.SPC if you wish
to direct the summary output elsewhere.

.SH NOTE
If no NPSOL.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/npsol/.

The file NPSOL.SPC may be used to set various NPSOL parameters. These
parameters are described in the chapter 'Optional Input Parameters' in
the User's Guide for NPSOL.

The CUTE default version of NPSOL.SPC includes only one line, to
direct the summary output to unit 6 (standard output).  All other
parameters therefore assume their default values.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIUser's Guide for NPSOL (Version 4.0):  A Fortran Package
for Nonlinear Programming\fP,
P.E. Gill, W. Murray, M.A. Saunders and M.H. Wright,
Technical Report SOL 86-2,
Systems Optimization Laboratory,
Department  of Operations Research,
Stanford University, Stanford, USA, January 1986.

