.\" @(#)pdsma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH pdsma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
pdsma \- CUTEr PDS test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
pdsma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpdsma\fP main program test drives PDS on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

PDS is a nonlinear programming code for unconstrained problems, which
only uses function values (no derivatives needed).  It is especially
intended to be used in a parallel computing environment.

.SH DISCLAIMER 
PDS was written by V. Torczon (email: va@cs.wm.edu). The following
notice goes with the PDS distribution:

.in 0.5i
.ll -0.3i 
Copyright (C) 1992 Virginia Torczon.  All rights reserved.
See below for limited use and distribution authorization.
 
PDS, the collection of sofware for executing the parallel direct
search methods, was written by Dr. Virginia Torczon, Department
of Mathematical Sciences, Rice University, Houston, Texas.  The
two versions of Quicksort included in this release were written
by Dr. Robert Michael Lewis, Department of Mathematical Sciences,
Rice University, Houston, Texas.  This software is distributed by
CITI, the Computer and Information Technology Institute of Rice
University.  CITI Catalog Number PD92005, released for distribution
March 16, 1992.
 
Subject to the terms below, this software may be copied,
distributed, or modified in any way desired without permission
from the author(s) or from Rice University.

If the software is distributed in complete, unmodified form, no
charge may be made for any copies so distributed, except that a
nominal fee not exceeding the reasonable cost of distribution may
be charged.  In addition, this legend must be included in all
such complete, unmodified copies so distributed (but otherwise no
reference may be made to the author(s) or to Rice University or
CITI).
 
Neither the author(s)' names nor that of their affiliated insti-
tutions (if any), nor the names of Rice University or CITI, may
be used by any person or entity, in any manner, without his/her/
its express prior written consent.
 
This software was created in the course of academic and/or re-
search endeavors and not as a commercial package.  Its present
version (which may still be in development) is distributed for a
nominal fee to cover the cost of distribution and administrative
costs, "AS IS, WITH ALL DEFECTS."   By using the software, each
user agrees to assume all responsibility for any and all such
use.  The author(s) and Rice University are not aware that the
software or the use thereof infringe any proprietary right be-
longing to a third party.  However, NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTA-
TION OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, is made about the software,
including without limitation any warranty of title, noninfringe-
ment, merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose, by
the author(s) or by Rice University.
 
Independent of the foregoing disclaimer of warranties, the user
agrees, by using the software, that NEITHER RICE UNIVERSITY NOR
THE AUTHOR(S) SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS OR INJURY TO BUSINESS, WHETHER OR
NOT RICE UNIVERSITY AND/OR THE AUTHOR(S) KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO
KNOW OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

By using this software, the user agrees to indemnify and defend
Rice University and the author(s) and their affiliated institu-
tions (if any), or any of them, against any loss, expense, claim,
damage, or liability of any kind arising from or connected with
the licensee's use of the software, and to hold them or any of
them harmless from any of the same, WHETHER OR NOT ARISING IN
WHOLE OR IN PART FROM THE NEGLIGENCE OR GROSS NEGLIGENCE OF RICE
UNIVERSITY OR ANY OF THE AUTHOR(S) OR THEIR AFFILIATED INSTITU-
TIONS (IF ANY).
.ll +0.3i
.in -0.5i

.SH USAGE
The object module \fIpdsma.o\fP is stored in
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin, where \fIprecision\fP is either "single"
or "double", according to your local installation.

Concatenate the files

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i 4i
create.f	scaled.f	pds.f	fcn.f                  
init.f	depth.f	shrink.f	reads.f                  
right.f	order.f	equal.f	writes.f            
define.f	search.f	quick.f	getss.f
maxlen.f	done.f	sort.f	result.f
.fi
 
from the PDS distribution in a single new file named pds.f. 

Compile (but do not link) the PDS source code and copy the
resulting object file pds.o in the directory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin. Launch using pds(1) or sdpds(1).

.SH NOTE
If no PDS.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/pds/. The
default specifications are as follows

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
0.00001	TOL	stopping tolerance for the step size
500	MAXITR	maximum number of iterations allowed
2	TYPE	0 given 1 right 2 regular 3 scaled rt
		 (1,2 & 3 constructed)
1.0	SCALE	if type not 0 scale contains base
		 length (and orientation)
4	DEBUG	flag 0 (none) 1 2 3 and 4 give
		 progressively more info.
256	SSS	number of points used in the search.
.fi

PDS is not available in single precision.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

