.\" @(#)snpma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH snpma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
snpma \- CUTEr SNOPT test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
snpma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIsnpma\fP main program test drives SNOPT on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The SNOPT package is designed to minimize smooth functions subject to
constraints, which may include simple bounds, linear constraints, and
smooth nonlinear constraints.  The software uses a sequential
quadratic programming algorithm, where bounds, linear constraints and
nonlinear constraints are treated separately.  SNOPT stores all
matrices in dense format, and is therefore not intended for large
sparse problems.
 
SNOPT has been written by Gill, Murray, Saunders and Wright, and is
available from the Office of Technology Licensing at Stanford
University.

.SH USAGE
SNOPT 6.1 provides the library file libcutesnopt.a which should be
copied to

  $MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/lib

or linked to from this directory.

.SH OUTPUT
The main output from SNOPT is written (by default) in a file named
fort.9. This file is subsequently renamed to probname.nps by sdnps. If
this unit number has been changed in the SNOPT source code, then it
must also be changed in the shell script nps. The unit number may also
be changed in the SNOPT.SPC file, by adding the following lines (the
second being optional):
 
  Print file              output_id
  Print frequency         k     
 
which sends one line of the QP iteration log to the file having descriptor 
output_id every k-th minor iteration. This requires

  Minor print level

to be positive. It is *not* the case in the default CUTEr spec file.

In addition, SNOPT can create a summary of the problem output.
By the source code default, this summary is sent to unit 6 (stdout).
If you wish to direct the summary output elsewhere, you may include the lines,
the second line being optional

  Summary file		output_id
  Summary frequency	k

which sends one line of the QP iteration log to the device having descriptor 
output_id every k-th minor iteration. This requires

  Minor print level

to be positive. It is *not* the case in the default CUTEr spec file.

.SH NOTE
If no SNOPT.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/snopt/.

The file SNOPT.SPC may be used to set various SNOPT parameters. These
parameters are described in the chapter 'Optional Input Parameters' in
the User's Guide for SNOPT.

The CUTEr default version of SNOPT.SPC is as follows

 BEGIN SNOPT Problem
    Jacobian                   SPARSE
 
    Derivative level                3
 
    Superbasics limit            2000 

    Major iterations             2000
    Iteration limit           1000000

    Major print level               1
    Minor print level               0

    Verify level                   -1
    Solution                       No
 END SNOPT Problem

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIUser's Guide for SNOPT (Version 4.0):  A Fortran Package
for Nonlinear Programming\fP,
P.E. Gill, W. Murray, and M.A. Saunders, 
Technical Report SOL xx-x, Systems Optimization
Laboratory, Department of Operations Research,
Stanford University, Stanford, USA,  January 19xx.

sdsnp(1), snp(1).
