.\" @(#)uncma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH uncma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
uncma \- CUTEr UNCMIN test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
uncma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIuncma\fP main program test drives UNCMIN on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

The UNCMIN package is designed for unconstrained minimization and has
options that include both line search and trust region approaches. The
provided options include analytic gradients or difference
approximations with analytic Hessians or finite difference Hessians
(from analytic or finite difference gradients) or secant methods
(BFGS).

.SH USAGE
For correct performance, IEEE flags should be set for the compiler,
wherever appropriate.  (Otherwise, the machine precision EPSM may not
be calculated correctly by UNCMIN.)  On an RS/6000, for example, the
UNCMIN source should be compiled with at least the following flags:
 
xlf -qrndsngl -c uncmins.f
 
where uncmins.f is the file containing the single precision UNCMIN source.
Of course, you may wish to use additional flags for optimization, debugging,
etc.

The resulting object file uncmins.o should be placed in your directory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/.

.SH NOTE
If no UNCMIN.SPC file is present in the current directory,
the default version is copied from
$CUTER/common/src/pkg/uncmin/. Default specifications are as
follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
1.0	TYPX	typical size for each component of X
1.0	FSCALE	estimate of scale of minimization
		 function
1	METHOD	algorithm to use to solve minimization
		 problem
0	IEXP	=0 if minimization function not
		 expensive to evaluate (0/1)
8	MSG	message to inhibit certain automatic
		 checks + output
-1	NDIGIT	number of good digits in minimization
		 function (-1 = all)
1000	ITNLIM	maximum number of allowable iterations
1	IAGFLG	=0 if analytic gradient not supplied
1	IAHFLG	=0 if analytic hessian  not supplied
-1.0	DLT	initial trust region radius
		 (-1 = uncmin chooses)
0.00001	GRADTL	gradient tolerance for convergence
0.00001	STEPL	minimum steplength
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below and the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIA modular system of algorithms for unconstrained
minimization\fP,
J.E. Koontz, R.B. Schnabel, and B.E. Weiss,
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software,
vol. 11, pp. 419-440, 1985.

sdunc(1), unc(1).
