.\" @(#)va15ma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH va15ma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
va15ma \- CUTEr VA15 test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
va15ma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIva15ma\fP main program test drives VA15 on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

VA15 is a subroutine for the solution of the large-scale unconstrained
minimization problem. The routine does not require (nor exploits)
knowledge about the sparsity structure of the Hessian matrix. It uses
a limited memory BFGS quasi-Newton method.
 
VA15 is part of the HARWELL SUBROUTINE LIBRARY, and was written by
J. Nocedal. It is available from the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority, Harwell, subject to certain license agreements. It is
copyrighted jointly by the UKAEA and SERC (Science and Engineering
Research Council).

.SH USAGE
To build the \fIprecision\fP precision version, the VA15
\fIprecision\fP subroutine and dependencies should be concatenated in
a new file called va15.f. This file should then be compiled (but not
linked) and the resulting object file va15.o placed in the direcotory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/, where \fIprecision\fP is either
"single" or "double", according to your local installation.

.SH NOTE
If no VA15.SPC file is present in the current directory, the default
version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/va15/. Default
specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
5	M,	the number of iterations in the memory,
-1	IPRINT(1)	specifies the frequency of output
		(<0: no output),
0	IPRINT(2)	specifies content of output
		(0: minimal),
10000	MAXIT,	the maximum number of iterations,
0.00001	EPS,	the stopping tolerance.
.fi
 
The reader is referred to the paper quoted below, the documentation of
the routine in the Harwell Subrooutine Library or the code itself if
they wish to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIOn the limited memory BFGS method for large-scale
optimization\fP,
J. Nocedal,
Technical report NA-03, Department of Electrical
Enginnering and Computer Science,
Northwestern University, Evanston (USA), 1988.

sdva15(1), va15(1).
