.\" @(#)ve09ma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH ve09ma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
ve09ma \- CUTEr VE09 test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
ve09ma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIve09ma\fP main program test drives VE09 on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

VE09 is a subroutine for the solution of the general, large, quadratic
programming problem within a feasible region defined by simple bound
and linear equlaity constraints. It uses an active set approach in
which the variables are partitioned into free and fixed variables, the
latter being fixed at one of their bounds. The status of each variable
is revised after every iteration.
 
VE09 is part of the HARWELL SUBROUTINE LIBRARY, and was written by
Nick Gould. It is available from the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority, Harwell, subject to certain license agreements. It is
copyrighted jointly by the UKAEA and SERC (Science and Engineering
Research Council).

.SH USAGE
To build the \fIprecision\fP precision version, the VE09
\fIprecision\fP subroutine and dependencies should be concatenated in
a new file called ve09.f. This file should then be compiled (but not
linked) and the resulting object file ve09.o placed in the direcotory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/.

.SH NOTE
If no VE09.SPC file is present in the current directory, the default
version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/ve09/. Default
specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
1000	MAXIT,	the maximum number of iterations,
F	CONVEX,	the indicator for convexity of the QP.
.fi

The reader is referred to the paper quoted below, the documentation of
the routine in the Harwell Subrooutine Library or the code itself if
he or she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

N.I.M. Gould,
CSS Report 204,
Harwell Laboratory, A.E.R.E., Harwell, 1986.

sdve09(1), ve09(1).
