.\" @(#)ve14ma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH ve14ma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
ve14ma \- CUTEr VE14 test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
ve14ma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIve14ma\fP main program test drives VE14 on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

VE14 is a subroutine for the solution of the general, large, quadratic
programming problem within a feasible region defined by simple bound
constraints. It uses a barrier-type algorithm, and provides a choice
between the classical log-barrier function, the Jittorntrum-Osborne
barrier and the Lagrangian barrier of Conn, Gould and Toint.  The
first two choices only generate feasible points, while the last has
often proved to be the fastest.
 
VE14 is part of the HARWELL SUBROUTINE LIBRARY, and was written by
Nick Gould. It is available from the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority, Harwell, subject to certain license agreements. It is
copyrighted jointly by the UKAEA and SERC (Science and Engineering
Research Council).

.SH USAGE
To build the \fIprecision\fP precision version, the VE14
\fIprecision\fP subroutine and dependencies should be concatenated in
a new file called ve14.f. This file should then be compiled (but not
linked) and the resulting object file ve14.o placed in the direcotory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/.

.SH NOTE
If no VE14.SPC file is present in the current directory, the default
version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/ve14/. Default
specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
3	ITYPEB,	barrier (1=classical,
		2=Osborne+Jittorntrum,3=Lagrangian)
0.00001	STOPG,	projected gradient stopping tolerance
.fi 

The reader is referred to the papers quoted below, the documentation of the
routine in the Harwell Subrooutine Library or the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fINonlinear programming: sequential unconstrained
minimization techniques\fP,
A. Fiacco and G. McCormick,
Wiley, New York, 1968.

\fIA modified barrier function method with improved rate of
convergence for degenerate problems\fP,
K. Jittorntrum and M. Osborne,
Journal of the Australian Mathematical Society,
Series B, vol. 21. pp. 305-329, 1980.

\fIA globally convergent Lagrangian barrier algorithm for
optimization with general inequality constraints and
simple bounds\fP,
A.R. Conn, N. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
Mathematics of Computation, to appear, 1996.

\fIA catalogue of subroutines (release 11)\fP,
Harwell Subroutine Library,
Advanced Computing Department, Harwell Laboratory,
Harwell, UK, 1993.

sdve14(1), ve14(1).
