.\" @(#)vf13ma v1.0 11/2000;
.TH vf13ma 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
vf13ma \- CUTEr VF13 test driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
vf13ma

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIvf13ma\fP main program test drives VF13 on SIF problems from the
CUTEr distribution.

VE13 is a subroutine for the solution of the general nonlinear
programming problem, involving a possibly nonlinear objective function
and possibly nonlinear inequality and equality constraints. It uses a
sequential quadratic programming (SQP) approach and allows for a
non-monotonic decrease of the merit function using safeguards (the
watchdog technique).

VF13 is part of the HARWELL SUBROUTINE LIBRARY, and was written by
M.J.D. Powell. It is available from the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority, Harwell, subject to certain license agreements. It
is copyrighted jointly by the UKAEA and SERC (Science and Engineering
Research Council).

.SH USAGE
To build the \fIprecision\fP precision version, the VF13
\fIprecision\fP subroutine and dependencies should be concatenated in
a new file called vf13.f. This file should then be compiled (but not
linked) and the resulting object file vf13.o placed in the direcotory
$MYCUTER/\fIprecision\fP/bin/.

.SH NOTE
If no VF13.SPC file is present in the current directory, the default
version is copied from $CUTER/common/src/pkg/vf13/. Default
specifications are as follows:

.nf
.ta 1i 2i 3i
1000	MAXFUN,	the maximum number of function calls,
0	IPRINT,	the output specifier
		(0 = no internal printout),
0.0000001	ACCREQ,	the accuracy requirement,
F	DEBUG,	true for maximal printout before
		and after VF13.
.fi
 
The reader is referred to the papers quoted below, the documentation of the
routine in the Harwell Subrooutine Library or the code itself if he or
she wishes to modify these parameters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTER
Parent directory for CUTEr
.TP
.SB MYCUTER
Home directory of the installed CUTEr distribution.

.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

\fIExtensions to subroutine VF02\fP,
M.J.D. Powell,
in "System Modeling and Optimization", Lectures Notes
in Control and Information Sciences 38, 
R.F. Drenick and F. Kozin (eds.), Springer Verlag,
Heidelberg, pp. 520-538, 1982.

\fIThe watchdog technique for forcing convergence in 
algorithms for constrained optimization\fP,
R.M. Chamberlain, C. Lemarechal, H.C. Pedersen and
M.J.D. Powell,
Mathematical Programming Study 16, pp. 1-17, 1982.

\fIOn the quadratic programming algorithm of Goldfarb and
Idnani\fP, 
M.J.D. Powell,
Mathematical Programming Study 25, pp. 46-61, 1985.

sdvf13(1), vf13(1).
