.\" @(#)cutest2octave v1.0 07/2023;
.TH cutest2octave 1 "5 Jul 2023"
.SH NAME
cutest2octave \- CUTEst to Octave problem interface.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcutest2octave\fP \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcutest2octave\fP builds the interace between a problem described in
standard input format (SIF) and the CUTEst evaluation tools for Octave.
The command is actually a shortcut to a call to the CUTEst script

  \fBruncutest\fP -A ARCH -p octave -D \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP

where ARCH is the value provided by the environment variable
MYOCTAVEARCH (or MYARCH if MYOCTAVEARCH has not been set).
Checks are performed to see if ARCH exists, a version of CUTEst
using the architecture ARCH has been installed and if this
architecture uses the gfortran compiler required by Octave's mex
interface.

A successful run of cutest2octave will create a binary file mcutest.mex. 
This must be placed on the Octave search path before calling the Octave 
CUTEst tools.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTEST
.br
Directory containing CUTEst.
.TP
.SB OCTAVE
Directory containing Octave's executable.
.TP
.SB MYOCTAVEARCH
The default architecture that uses gfortran compatible with Octave's mex.
.TP
.SB OCTAVE_VERSION
The current octave version as returned by the command 
  basename `ls -d /usr/include/octave*`
.TP
.SB MYARCH
.br
The default architecture.
.TP
.SB MASTSIF
A pointer to the directory containing the CUTEst problems
collection. If this variable is not set, the current directory is
searched for \fIproblem.SIF\fP. If it is set, the current directory is
searched first, and if \fIproblem.SIF\fP is not found there, $MASTSIF
is searched.
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban, Ph.L. Toint and R. Jezek
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

runcutest(1).
