.\" @(#)cutest2matlab v1.0 01/2013;
.TH cutest2matlab 1 "29 Jan 2013"
.SH NAME
cutest2matlab \- CUTEst to Matlab problem interface.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcutest2matlab\fP \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcutest2matlab\fP builds the interace between a problem described in
standard input format (SIF) and the CUTEst evaluation tools for Matlab.
The command is actually a shortcut to a call to the CUTEst script

  \fBruncutest\fP -A ARCH -p matlab -D \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP

where ARCH is the value provided by the environment variable
MYMATLABARCH (or MYARCH if MYMATLABARCH has not been set).
Checks are performed to see if ARCH exists, a version of CUTEst
using the architecture ARCH has been installed and if this
architecture uses the gfortran compiler required by Matlab's mex
interface.

A successful run of cutest2matlab will create a binary file
mcutest.mexglx (32bit Linux), mcutest.mexa64 (64bit Linux)
mcutest.mexmaci (32bit OSX) or mcutest.mexmaci64 (64bit OSX).
This must be placed on the Matlab search path before calling
the Matlab CUTEst tools.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTEST
.br
Directory containing CUTEst.
.TP
.SB MYMATLAB
Directory containing Matlab's mex executable.
.TP
.SB MYMATLABARCH
The default architecture that uses gfortran compatible with Matlab's mex.
.TP
.SB MYARCH
.br
The default architecture.
.TP
.SB MASTSIF
A pointer to the directory containing the CUTEst problems
collection. If this variable is not set, the current directory is
searched for \fIproblem.SIF\fP. If it is set, the current directory is
searched first, and if \fIproblem.SIF\fP is not found there, $MASTSIF
is searched.
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing 
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

runcutest(1).
