.\" @(#)runcutest v1.0 01/2013;
.AM
.TH runcutest 1 "18 Feb 2013"
.SH NAME
runcutest \- CUTEst interface to solvers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBruncutest\fP --package \fIpack\fP [\-\-architecture \fIarch\fP]  [\-\-single] [\-\-quadruple] [\-\-help] [\-\-keep] [\-\-rebuild] [\-\-stash] [\-\-output \fI0|1\fP] [\-\-limit \fIsecs\fP] [\-\-cfortran] [\-\-debug] [\-\-uncons] [\-L\fIpath/to/lib\fP] [\-\-blas \fIkeyword\fP] [\-\-lapack \fIkeyword\fP] [\-\-command] [\-\-config] [\-\-decode \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBruncutest\fP is the CUTEst interface to solvers. It replaces its
predecessor CUTEr's combination of \fBrunpackage\fP, \fIpkg\fP and
\fBsd\fP\fIpkg\fP. The command accepts options in short or long form.
Any option that is not directly recognized is passed unchanged to the
SIF decoder, sifdecoder(1).

\fBruncutest\fP reads suitable architecture-dependent environment variables
and then compiles and
links all the relevant source files and libraries to form an executable
of the package \fIpackage\fP running on problem \fIproblem\fP.

The user has the opportunity to run commands before and after the run if
need be. \fBruncutest\fP executes the script \fIpackage\fP_pre, if it
exists, before the run. Similarly, it executes the script
\fIpackage\fP_post, if it exists, after completion of the run.

.LP
.SH runcutest Options
You can start runcutest with the following options. An option can be used either in short or long form.
.TP 5
.B \-p, \-\-package \fIpack\fP
Specifies the package or solver, \fIpack\fP
to use. See the section \fBCurrently Supported Packages\fP below.
This is the only mandatory option.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-architecture \fIarch\fP
Run the decoder using the architecture \fIarch\fP; the architeture
is a string of the form machine.system.compiler as specified in the
directory $CUTEST/versions. If no \-A option is given, a valid
architecture given by the environment variable $MYARCH will be
used, but if $MYARCH is invalid or empty the decoder will terminate.
.TP
.B \-sp, \-\-single
Run \fIpackage\fP in single-precision mode if available. Double
precision is the default.
.TP
.B \-qp, \-\-quadruple
Run \fIpackage\fP in quadruple-precision mode if available. Double
precision is the default.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a short help message with the available command-line options.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keep
Keep the generated executable after use. May be useful when solving a
particular problem with the same solver with different
parameters. Deleting the executable after use is the default.
This option is incompatible with \-S.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-rebuild
Force recompilation of the test problem. Default is to reuse object files.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-stash
Stash problem files (code and data) away in a temporary directory so as not
to pollute the working directory. This option is incompatible with \-k.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output \fI0|1\fP
Regulates the output level. Verbose mode is \fB-o\fP 1, silent mode is
\fB-o\fP 0. Silent mode is the default.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-limit \fIsecs\fP
Sets a limit of \fIsecs\fP second on the \fIpackage\fP runtime.
Unlimited cputime is the default.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cfortran
Causes specialized compiler options to be used to specify that the main
subroutine of \fIpackage\fP is written in C. This is necessary with some
compilers, such as the Intel Fortran Compiler.
.TP
.B \-L\fIpath/to/lib\fP
This option is passed directly to the linker and causes the path
\fIpath/to/lib\fP to be searched for libraries. Useful to specify custom
BLAS and LAPACK libraries.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-blas \fIkeyword\fP
Overrides usage of the default \fIlinpack\fP library packaged with
CUTEst. Instead, use the BLAS library specified by \fIkeyword\fP. The
keyword \fIkeyword\fP has one of two forms. The first, \fI-lmyblas\fP
causes the linker to search for BLAS subprograms in the libmyblas.a
library. The second, \fInone\fP, causes the linker to skip inclusion of
any external BLAS. Use the first option if an optimized BLAS library is
available on the host system, e.g., the ATLAS BLAS. The second option is
useful for packages which already include the necessary BLAS
subprograms. Use of \fInone\fP may be useful if \fIpackage\fP already
includes the BLAS subroutines on which it relies.
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-lapack \fIkeyword\fP
Overrides usage of the default \fIlinpack\fP library packaged with
CUTEst. Instead, use the LAPACK library specified by \fIkeyword\fP. The
keyword \fIkeyword\fP has one of two forms. The first, \fI-lmylapack\fP
causes the linker to search for LAPACK subroutines in the libmylapack.a
library. The second, \fInone\fP, causes the linker to skip inclusion of
any external LAPACK. Use the first option if an optimized LAPACK library
is available on the host system. The second option is useful for
packages which already include the necessary LAPACK subprograms. Use of
\fInone\fP may be useful if \fIpackage\fP already includes the LAPACK
subroutines on which it relies.
.TP
.B \-\-command
Displays the compilation commands used.
.TP
.B \-\-config
Displays the current configuration settings.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-decode \fIproblem[.SIF]\fP
Applies the SIF decoder to the problem \fIproblem.SIF\fP to produce the
OUTSDIF.d file and the problem-dependant Fortan subroutines. If this
flag is not specified, \fBruncutest\fP assumes that the problem has been
decoded prior to the call.
.TP
.B "additional command-line options"
Any command-line option not documented in this manual page and/or in the
help message of \fBruncutest\fP is passed unchanged to the SIF
decoder. See the \fBsifdecode\fP manual page for more information.

.SH CURRENTLY SUPPORTED PACKAGES
There are currently interfaces to the following packages:
.TP 5
.B \fIalgencan\fP
See
E. G. Birgin, R. Castillo and J. M. Martinez,
\fINumerical comparison of Augmented Lagrangian algorithms for nonconvex
problems\fP,
Computational Optimization and Applications 31, 31-56 (2005).

http://www.ime.usp.br/~egbirgin/tango/codes.php

.TP
.B \fIbobyqa\fP
See
M.J.D. Powell,
\fIThe BOBYQA algorithm for bound constrained optimization without
derivatives\fP,
Technical report NA2009/06
Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Cambridge England,
(2009).

.TP
.B \fIcg_descent\fP
See W. W. Hager and H. Zhang,
\fIAlgorithm 851: CG_DESCENT, A conjugate gradient method with guaranteed
descent\fP, ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 32, 113-137 (2006).

http://www.math.ufl.edu/~hager/papers/CG/

.TP
.B \fIcgplus\fP
The CG+ package is a nonlinear conjugate-gradient algorithm
designed for unconstrained minimization by G. Liu, Jorge
Nocedal and Richard Waltz (Northwestern U.).

http://users.eecs.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/CG+.html

.TP
.B \fIcobyla\fP
See
M.J.D. Powell,
\fIA direct search optimization method that models the objective and
constraint functions by linear interpolation\fP,
In Advances in optimization and numerical analysis, Proceedings
of the Sixth workshop on Optimization and Numerical Analysis, Oaxaca,
Mexico, volume 275 of Mathematics and its Applications, pp 51--67.
Kluwer Academic Publishers (1994).

.TP
.B \fIderchk\fP
This package checks the dervatives supplied in the problem SIF file, and
is due to Dominique Orban from Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal.

.TP
.B \fIcurvi\fP
.br
See
John E. Dennis Jr., Nélida E. Echebest, M. T. Guardarucci, José Mario Martínez,
Hugo D. Scolnik and M. C. Vacchino,
\fIA Curvilinear Search Using Tridiagonal Secant Updates for Unconstrained
Optimization\fP.
SIAM Journal on Optimization 1(3): 333-357 (1991).

https://www.dropbox.com/sh/9lhkdugqau07cyw/AACN4g8HyWp47n8o18yLMyeka?dl=0

.TP
.B \fIdfo\fP
.br
See A. R. Conn, K. Scheinberg and Ph.L. Toint,
\fIOn the convergence of derivative-free methods for unconstrained
optimization\fP,
Approximation Theory and Optimization: Tributes to M. J. D. Powell ,
Eds. A. Iserles and M. Buhmann, 83-108, Cambridge University Press (1997).

https://projects.coin-or.org/Dfo

.TP
.B \fIdirestsearch\fP
The Direct Search suite provides a variety of pattern-search methods for
derivative-free optimization and was written by Liz Dolan, Adam Gurson,
Anne Shepherd, Chris Siefert, Virginia Torczon and Amy Yates.

http://www.cs.wm.edu/~va/software/DirectSearch/direct_code/

.TP
.B \fIE04NQF\fP
.br
This is a quadratic programming solver from the NAG library.

https://www.nag.com/numeric/fl/nagdoc_fl26.0/html/e04/e04nqf.html

.TP
.B \fIfiltersd\fP
See
R. Fletcher
\fIA sequential linear constraint programming algorithm for NLP\fP,
SIAM Journal on Optimization, 22(3), pp. 772-794 (2012).

http://www.coin-or.org/projects/filterSD.xml

.TP
.B \fIfiltersqp\fP
FilterSQP is a filter-based SQP method for large-scale nonlinear programming
by Roger Fletcher and Sven Leyffer from the University of Dundee.

.TP
.B \fIgen77\fP, \fIgen90\fP, \fIgenc\fP
.br
These packages simply illustrates how CUTEst tools may be called in fortran 77,
fortran 90 and C; the result is of no consequence.

.TP
.B \fIhighs\fP
HiGHS is an simplex/active-set method for large-scale linear and strictly-convex
quadratic programming by Julian Hall, Qi Huangfu, Ivet Galabova, Michael
Feldmeier and Leona Gottwald. See
Q. Huangfu and J. A. J. Hall,
\fIParallelizing the dual revised simplex method\fP, 
Mathematical Programming Computation, 10 (1), 119-142, 2018. 

.TP
.B \fIhrb\fP
.br
This package writes the matrix data for the given problem in Harwell or
Rutherford-Boeing sparse matrix forrmat, and was provded by Nick Gould
from the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory.

.TP
.B \fIipopt\fP
See A. Wächter and L. T. Biegler,
\fIOn the Implementation of an Interior-Point Filter Line-Search Algorithm
for Large-Scale Nonlinear Programming\fP,
Mathematical Programming 106(1) 25-57 (2006).

https://projects.coin-or.org/Ipopt

.TP
.B \fIknitro\fP
See R. H. Byrd, J. Nocedal, and R. A. Waltz,
\fIKNITRO: An Integrated Package for Nonlinear Optimization\fP in
Large-Scale Nonlinear Optimization, G. di Pillo and M. Roma, eds,
pp. 35-59 (2006), Springer-Verlag.

http://www.ziena.com/knitro.htm

.TP
.B \fIla04\fP
.br
LA04 is a steepest-edge simplex method for linear programming by John Reid
frm the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory.

http://www.hsl.rl.ac.uk/catalogue/la04.xml

.TP
.B \fIlbfgs\fP
See D.C. Liu and J. Nocedal,
\fIOn the Limited Memory Method for Large Scale Optimization\fP
Mathematical Programming B, 45(3) 503-528 (1989).

http://users.eecs.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/lbfgs.html

.TP
.B \fIlbfgsb\fP
See C. Zhu, R. H. Byrd and J. Nocedal.
\fIL-BFGS-B: Algorithm 778: L-BFGS-B, FORTRAN routines for large scale bound
constrained optimization\fP
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 23(4) 550-560 (1997).

http://users.eecs.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/lbfgsb.html

.TP
.B \fIlinuoa\fP
See
M.J.D. Powell,
\fIThe LINUOA software for linearly unconstrained optimization without derivatives\fP,

http://www.netlib.org/na-digest-html/13/v13n42.html#2

.TP
.B \fIloqo\fP
.br
See R. J. Vanderbei and D. F. Shanno
\fIAn Interior-Point Algorithm for Nonconvex Nonlinear Programming\fP,
13 (1-3) pp 231-252 (1999).

http://www.princeton.edu/~rvdb/loqo/LOQO.html

.TP
.B \fImatlab\fP
Creates a Matlab binary to allow CUTEst calls from Matlab.
See $CUTEST/src/matlab/README.matlab to see how to use the binary with Matlab.
Note that there is a simplified interface \fBcutest2matlab\fP that may be
used in preference. The environment variable MYMATLAB must be set to point to
the directory containing Matlab's mex executable.

.TP
.B \fIminos\fP
See
B. A. Murtagh and M. A. Saunders.
\fIA projected Lagrangian algorithm and its implementation for sparse
nonlinear constraints\fP,
Mathematical Programming Study 16, 84-117 (1982).

http://www.sbsi-sol-optimize.com/asp/sol_product_minos.htm

.TP
.B \fInitsol\fP
See M. Pernice and H. F. Walker,
\fINITSOL: a Newton iterative solver for nonlinear systems\fP,
Special Issue on Iterative Methods, SIAM J. Sci. Comput., 19, 302-318 (1998).

http://users.wpi.edu/~walker/NITSOL/

.TP
.B \fInlpqlp\fP
See K. Schittkowski, \fINLPQLP: A Fortran implementation of a sequential
quadratic programming algorithm with distributed and non-monotone line
search\fP,
Report, Department of Computer Science, University of Bayreuth (2010).

http://www.klaus-schittkowski.de/nlpqlp.htm

.TP
.B \fInomad\fP
A derivative-free code for constrained and unconstrained
optimization implementing the mesh-adaptive direct-search framework
written by
Sebastien Le Digabel, Charles Audet and others from Ecole Polytechnique
de Montreal.

http://www.gerad.ca/nomad

.TP
.B \fInpsol\fP
A linesearch SQP method for constrained optimization by Philip Gill,
Walter Murray, Michael Saunders and Margaret Wright from Stanford University.

http://www.sbsi-sol-optimize.com/asp/sol_product_npsol.htm

.TP
.B \fInewuoa\fP
See
M.J.D. Powell,
\fIThe NEWUOA software for unconstrained optimization without derivatives\fP,
in, G. Di Pillo and M. Roma (eds), Large-Scale Nonlinear Optimization,
volume 83 of Nonconvex Optimization and Its Applications
pp 255-297, Springer Verlag, 2006.

.TP
.B \fIosqp\fP
See
B. Stellato, G. Banjac, P. Goulart, A. Bemporad and S. Boyd,
\fIOSQP: An Operator Splitting Solver for Quadratic Programs\fP,
ArXiv e-prints http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017arXiv171108013S (2017).

http://osqp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

.TP
.B \fIpds\fP
.br
Direct search methods for unconstrained optimization on either sequential or
parallel machines by Virginia Torczon from The College of William and Mary.

.TP
.B \fIpennlp\fP
See
M. Ko\*[v]cvara and M. Stingl,
\fIPENNON - a code for convex nonlinear and semidefinite programming\fP,
Optimization Methods and Software, 8(3):317–333 (2003).

http://www.penopt.com

.TP
.B \fIpraxis\fP
Brent's multi-dimensional direct search unconstrained minimization algorithm,
as implemented by John Chandler, Sue Pinsk and Rosalee Taylor from
Oklahoma State University.

http://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/f_src/praxis/praxis.html

.TP
.B \fIql\fP
.br
See K. Schittkowski,
\fIQL: A Fortran code for convex quadratic programming - User's guide, Version
2.11\fP, Report, Department of Mathematics, University of Bayreuth (2005).

http://www.klaus-schittkowski.de/ql.htm

.TP
.B \fIqplib\fP
.br
This packages converts the data into QPlib2014 format as required
by the QPlib2014 quadratic programming test set.

http://www.lamsade.dauphine.fr/QPlib2014

.TP
.B \fIsnopt\fP
See P. E. Gill, W. Murray and M. A. Saunders,
\fISNOPT: An SQP algorithm for large-scale constrained optimization\fP,
SIAM Review 47(1) 99-131 (2005).

http://www.sbsi-sol-optimize.com/asp/sol_product_snopt.htm

.TP
.B \fIspg\fP
.br
See E. G. Birgin, J. M. Martinez and M. Raydan,
\fIAlgorithm 813: SPG - software for convex-constrained optimization\fP,
ACM Transactions on Mathematical  Software 27 340-349, (2001).

http://www.ime.usp.br/~egbirgin/tango/codes.php

.TP
.B \fIsqic\fP
.br
See
P. E. Gill and E. Wong,
\fIMethods for Convex and General Quadratic Programming\fP,
Technical Report NA 10-1, Dept. of Mathematics, University of California,
San Diego (latest version 2013).

.TP
.B \fIstats\fP
The package collects statistics about the types of variables and constraints
involved in a given problem, and was written by Dominique Orban from
Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal.

.TP
.B \fIstenmin\fP
See A. Bouaricha,
\fIAlgorithm 765: STENMIN \- a software package for large, sparse unconstrained
optimization using tensor methods\fP,
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 23(1) 81-90 (1997).

http://www.netlib.org/toms/765

.TP
.B \fItao\fP
.br
TAO is an object-oriented package for large-scale optimization written by
Todd Munson, Jason Sarich, Stefan Wild, Steven Benson and Lois Curfman McInnes,

http://www.mcs.anl.gov/research/projects/tao/

.TP
.B \fItenmin\fP
See R.B. Schnabel and T.-T. Chow,
R. B. Schnabel and T.-T. Chow,
\fIAlgorithm 739: A software package for unconstrained optimization using
tensor methods\fP,
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 20(4) 518-530 (1994).

http://www.netlib.org/toms/739

.TP
.B \fItest\fP
.br
This package makes calls to all of the appropriate
CUTEst tools to check for errors.

.TP
.B \fItron\fP
.br
See C. Lin and J. J. More',
\fINewton's method for large bound-constrained optimization problems\fP,
SIAM J. Optimization 9(4) 1100-1127 (1999).

  http://www.mcs.anl.gov/~more/tron/

.TP
.B \fIuncmin\fP
See J. E. Koontz, R.B. Schnabel, and B.E. Weiss,
\fIA modular system of algorithms for unconstrained minimization\fP,
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 11(4) 419-440 (1985).

.TP
.B \fIvf13\fP
.br
VF13 is a line-search SQP method for constrained optimization by Mike Powell
from the University of Cambridge.

http://www.hsl.rl.ac.uk/archive/index.html

.TP
.B \fIworhp\fP
See C. Bueskens and D. Wassel,
\fIThe ESA NLP Solver WORHP\fP, in G. Fasano and J.D. Pinter, eds,
Modeling and Optimization in Space Engineering, volume 73 of
Springer Optimization and Its Applications, pp 85-110 (2013),
Springer-Verlag.

http://www.worhp.de

.LP
Interfaces to the obsolete packages
\fIhsl_ve12\fP, \fIosl\fP, \fIva15\fP, \fIve09\fP and \fIve14\fP
previously supported in CUTEr have been withdrawn.

The packages
\fIderchk\fP,  \fIgen77/90/c\fP, \fIhrb\fP, \fIstats\fP and \fItest\fP
are supplied
as part of the CUTEst distribution and should work "as is".
Anyone wishing to use one of remaining packages will need to download
and install it first. See the
README in the relevant subdirectory of $CUTEST/src for further
instructions.

A file with each of supported package's name may be found
in the directory $CUTEST/packages/ and indicates default
locations for the package's binary and options files.
These files may be edited if necessary, or copied into
$CUTEST/packages/(arrchitecture)/(precision)/
(and made executable using \fBchmod\fP a+x)
to allow for architecture or precision
specfic settings; \fBruncutest\fP will use the architecture/precision
specfic directory version, if any, in preference to the default version.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB CUTEST
 Directory containing CUTEst.
.TP
.SB SIFDECODE
Directory containing SIFDecode.
.TP
.SB MYARCH
 The default architecture.
.TP
.SB MASTSIF
A pointer to the directory containing the CUTEst problems
collection. If this variable is not set, the current directory is
searched for \fIproblem.SIF\fP. If it is set, the current directory is
searched first, and if \fIproblem.SIF\fP is not found there, $MASTSIF
is searched.
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEst: a Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment with safe threads for mathematical optimization\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   Computational Optimization and Applications \fB60\fP:3, pp.545-557, 2014.

\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
   I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecoder(1), cutest2matlab(1).
